Pacific Coastal fish live and breed in
the most fragile of habitats coral reefs
but many reefs have been trampled on
smashed by boats and even dynamited in
the quest for fish and damaged reefs
support fewer fish this could be why the
fishermen are catching less in Fiji
biologists are working with fishermen to
bring the fish back by replanting the
reefs this is a coral nursery but with
wild corals already struggling where
have these coral seedlings come from the
coral gardeners monitor the reef looking
for corals that need a helping hand
despite all this real estate many corals
end up clustered together crowded out
they will eventually die so the
gardener's uproot them creating more
space for some and giving the uprooted
ones a fresh start
each coral head is broken down into a
dozen or more fingers and each of these
is tied onto a concrete disc as every
gardener knows vigorous growth requires
sunlight plenty of nutrients and the
right temperature so the coral gardeners
choose just the spot
within six months the corals are
branching out
they're spaced out onto adjacent tables
and a year or two after planting they're
ready for harvesting the coral heads are
broken down once more in the space of
two years a single finger of coral has
multiplied into 50 or more some of these
will be replanted on fresh disks while
others will be returned to the reef
if replicated coral gardening could help
restore reefs throughout the Pacific but
its biggest success may be in sowing the
seeds of conservation in the local
fishermen within days these cuttings
will have stuck themselves to the reef
while reefs that were replanted a year
ago are already starting to bloom
in a few more years this area should be
awash with fish
so there's hope for coastal fisheries on
which local people depend